doc: tfm: move overview to a separate page (#20874)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/security/tfm/tfm_supported_services.rst

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services:

Supported services and limitations in the |NCS|
###############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This page lists the supported features and limitations of Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) in the |NCS|.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles:

Supported TF-M profiles
***********************

The `Trusted Firmware-M <TF-M documentation_>`_ provides several :ref:`tf-m_profiles` for different use cases and levels of TF-M configuration.

> The |NCS| *does not* follow this classification, but instead provides two main configurations for TF-M: minimal and configurable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| *does not* follow this classification, but instead, provides two main configurations for TF-M: minimal and configurable.
```

> The |NCS| *does not* follow this classification, but instead provides two main configurations for TF-M: minimal and configurable.

Reviewer 2: I think that you might actually be able to use some of the profiles, but I like the clarity of this.

Author: Checking.

Author: Discussed with @SeppoTakalo . We say we don't support them in the NCS and we don't follow them, which is correct. Technically speaking, one could reach a point where a configuration matches one of TF-M ones, but that does not change the status of support in the NCS.

   * - :ref:`TF-M ARoT-less <tf-m_profiles>`
     - Not supported
     - Reference implementation to align with security requirements defined in PSA Certified ARoT-less Level 2 protection profile.
   * - :ref:`TF-M Medium <tf-m_profiles>`
     - Not supported
     - Profile Medium aims to securely connect devices to Cloud services with asymmetric cipher support.
   * - :ref:`TF-M Large <tf-m_profiles>`
     - Not supported
     - Profile Large protects less resource-constrained Arm Cortex-M devices.

.. toggle:: Hardware support matrix for TF-M configurations

   .. include:: ../../releases_and_maturity/software_maturity.rst
      :start-after: tfm_ncs_profiles_support_table_start
      :end-before: tfm_ncs_profiles_support_table_end

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles_minimal:

Minimal TF-M configuration
==========================

.. minimal_build_overview_start

The default configuration of TF-M has all supported features enabled, which results in a significant memory footprint.
For this reason, the |NCS| provides a minimal version of the TF-M secure application, which shows how to configure a reduced version of TF-M.

> The secure services supported by this minimal version allow for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secure services supported by the minimal version allow for:
```

* Generating random numbers using the random generator available in the device (see `crypto.h`_).
* Using the :ref:`platform services <ug_tfm_services_platform>` with `tfm_platform_api.h`_ (except the ``tfm_platform_nv_counter_*`` functions).
  This includes sending platform-specific service requests using `tfm_ioctl_core_api.h`_ and `tfm_ioctl_api.h`_.
* Reading secure memory from the non-secure application (strictly restricted to a list of allowed addresses).
  Depending on the device, this lets you read metadata in the bootloader, verify FICR or UICR values, or access a peripheral that is secure-only.
* Rebooting from the non-secure side.

.. minimal_build_overview_end

See :ref:`ug_tfm_building` for more information on building the TF-M secure application with the minimal build.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles_configurable:

Configurable TF-M build
=======================

.. configurable_build_overview_start

The configurable build is the full TF-M implementation that lets you configure all of its features.

> It does not come with the constraints of the minimal build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does not have the constraints of the minimal build.
```

.. configurable_build_overview_end

> When you use the configurable build, you are free to enable or disable any of the features in the TF-M configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use the configurable build, you are free to enable or disable any of the features in the application configuration file.
```

See :ref:`tfm_configurable_build` for more information on building the TF-M secure application with the configurable build.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_tfm_services:

Supported TF-M services
***********************

The following TF-M services are supported in the |NCS|:

.. list-table:: TF-M services supported in the nRF Connect SDK
   :header-rows: 1

   * - TF-M service
     - Supported API version in the |NCS|
     - Description
     - Configuration steps
   * - Platform service
     - n/a

>      - Mandatory implementation of the :ref:`ug_tfm_architecture_rot_services_platform`. Provides platform-specific services such as Crypto, Internal Trusted Storage, to other TF-M partitions and to non-secure applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Mandatory implementation of the :ref:`ug_tfm_architecture_rot_services_platform`. Provides platform-specific services to other TF-M partitions and to non-secure applications.
```

       | Instead, other options are available for the immutable bootloader and the upgradable bootloader.
       | See :ref:`app_bootloaders` for more information on available bootloaders.
     - n/a

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_isolation:

Isolation Level support
***********************

TF-M provides different :ref:`isolation levels <ug_tfm_architecture_isolation_lvls>` between security domains.
The following table lists the isolation level support in Nordic Semiconductor's implementation of TF-M:

.. list-table:: TF-M isolation levels in the nRF Connect SDK
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 65

   * - Isolation Level
     - Support Status
     - Description
   * - Level 1
     - Supported
     - SPE isolation - Secure Processing Environment is protected from access by Non-Secure application firmware and hardware.
   * - Level 2
     - Supported with limitations
     - | Platform RoT isolation - In addition to Level 1, Platform RoT is protected from Application RoT (App RoT).
       |
       | *Limitation in the nRF Connect SDK*: The number of peripherals configured as secure in App RoT is limited by available MPU regions.
   * - Level 3
     - Not supported

>      - Maximum firmware isolation - In addition to Level 2, each Secure Partition is sandboxed.

Reviewer 2: https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/design_docs/ff_isolation.html#isolation-levels

The definition for Isolation Level 3:

L3.1 NPSE needs protection from nobody.

L3.2 Secure Partition needs protection from NSPE and other Secure Partitions.

L3.3 PSA Root of Trust (RoT) domain needs protection from NSPE and all Secure Partitions.

Author: Aligned a bit with tfm_architecture.rst. Will most likely revisit in a future PR.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_limitations:

Limitations
***********

> This following list summarizes limitations of TF-M in the |NCS| mentioned in the sections above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list summarizes limitations of TF-M in the |NCS|:
```

The secure services supported by the minimal version allow for:

* Generating random numbers using the random generator available in the device (see `crypto.h`_).
* Using the :ref:`platform services <ug_tfm_services_platform>` with `tfm_platform_api.h`_ (except the ``tfm_platform_nv_counter_*`` functions).
  This includes sending platform-specific service requests using `tfm_ioctl_core_api.h`_ and `tfm_ioctl_api.h`_.
* Reading secure memory from the non-secure application (strictly restricted to a list of allowed addresses).
  Depending on the device, this lets you read metadata in the bootloader, verify FICR or UICR values, or access a peripheral that is secure-only.
* Rebooting from the non-secure side.

.. minimal_build_overview_end

See :ref:`ug_tfm_building` for more information on building the TF-M secure application with the minimal build.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles_configurable:

Configurable TF-M build
=======================

.. configurable_build_overview_start

The configurable build is the full TF-M implementation that lets you configure all of its features.
It does not have the constraints of the minimal build.

.. configurable_build_overview_end

> When you use the configurable build, you are free to enable or disable any of the features in the application configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the configurable build, you can enable or disable any of the features in the application configuration file.
```

     - n/a

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_isolation:

Isolation Level support
***********************

TF-M provides different :ref:`isolation levels <ug_tfm_architecture_isolation_lvls>` between security domains.
The following table lists the isolation level support in Nordic Semiconductor's implementation of TF-M:

.. list-table:: TF-M isolation levels in the nRF Connect SDK
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 65

   * - Isolation level
     - Support status in the |NCS|
     - Description
   * - Level 1
     - Supported
     - SPE isolation - Secure Processing Environment is protected from access by Non-Secure application firmware and hardware.
   * - Level 2
     - Supported with limitations
     - | Platform RoT isolation - In addition to Level 1, Platform RoT is protected from Application RoT (App RoT).
       |
       | *Limitation in the nRF Connect SDK*: The number of peripherals configured as secure in App RoT is limited by available MPU regions.
   * - Level 3
     - Not supported
     - Maximum firmware isolation, with each Secure Partition sandboxed and only permitted to access its own resources.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_limitations:

Limitations
***********

> The following list summarizes limitations of TF-M in the |NCS|:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list summarizes the limitations of TF-M in the |NCS|:
```

* TF-M profiles are not supported.
* From among the TF-M Services, Firmware Update service is not supported.
* The following crypto modules or ciphers are not supported:

  * AES output feedback (AES-OFB) mode.
  * AES cipher feedback (AES-CFB) mode.

* Isolation level 3 is not supported.

> * In Isolation level 2 (and 3), the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In Isolation level 2 (and 3), the number of peripherals configured as secure in the Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.
```

   * - :ref:`TF-M Medium <tf-m_profiles>`
     - Not supported
     - Profile Medium aims to securely connect devices to Cloud services with asymmetric cipher support.
   * - :ref:`TF-M Large <tf-m_profiles>`
     - Not supported
     - Profile Large protects less resource-constrained Arm Cortex-M devices.

Hardware support matrix for TF-M configurations
  Expand the following field to list the software maturity levels for the TF-M configurations in the |NCS| for each device.

  .. toggle::

     .. include:: ../../releases_and_maturity/software_maturity.rst
        :start-after: tfm_ncs_profiles_support_table_start
        :end-before: tfm_ncs_profiles_support_table_end

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles_minimal:

Minimal TF-M configuration
==========================

.. minimal_build_overview_start

The default configuration of TF-M has all supported features enabled, which results in a significant memory footprint.
For this reason, the |NCS| provides a minimal version of the TF-M secure application, which shows how to configure a reduced version of TF-M.

> The secure services supported by the minimal version allow for:

Reviewer 3: In TF-M, functions are either available from  the SPE only or from both NSPE+SPE. As a user, it is important to know which functionality I can use from the NSPE.

Author: Need to think where to put this.

Reviewer 3: I think that this is solved if we mention that APIs linked to below can be called  from the non-secure side, such as is mentioned with Reboot. 
For example :
"Using the :ref:`platform services <ug_tfm_services_platform>` with `tfm_platform_api.h` from the non-secure side"

> * Generating random numbers using the random generator available in the device (see `crypto.h`_).

Reviewer 3: Don't we have docs for the API instead of linking directly to .h files?
Especially crypto.h I think we should got something for. I guess we do not have docs for the rest of the APIs?

Author: NCSDK-30040 is addressing that.

* Using the :ref:`platform services <ug_tfm_services_platform>` with `tfm_platform_api.h`_ (except the ``tfm_platform_nv_counter_*`` functions).
  This includes sending platform-specific service requests using `tfm_ioctl_core_api.h`_ and `tfm_ioctl_api.h`_.
* Reading secure memory from the non-secure application (strictly restricted to a list of allowed addresses).

>   Depending on the device, this lets you read metadata in the bootloader, verify FICR or UICR values, or access a peripheral that is secure-only.

Reviewer 3: Do we have anything we can link users so they can see what memory this actually covers?
As a user, I read this and think "But what memory can I use?"

Author: Checking. Will be addressed in the next PR.

* Rebooting from the non-secure side.

.. minimal_build_overview_end

See :ref:`ug_tfm_building` for more information on building the TF-M secure application with the minimal build.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_profiles_configurable:

Configurable TF-M build
=======================

.. configurable_build_overview_start

The configurable build is the full TF-M implementation that lets you configure all of its features.
It does not have the constraints of the minimal build.

.. configurable_build_overview_end

When you use the configurable build, you can enable or disable any of the features in the application configuration file.
See :ref:`tfm_configurable_build` for more information on building the TF-M secure application with the configurable build.

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_tfm_services:

Supported TF-M services
***********************

> The following TF-M services are supported in the |NCS|:

Reviewer 3: This is how they are enabled in TF-M, right. However, additional configurations might be needed to use the APIs related to the TF-M functionality.
For example for the PSA Crypto API, the application must also set CONFIG_MBEDTLS_PSA_CRYPTO_C to use PSA Crypto from the NSPE.
Dont know if we need to, but perhaps it is useful to mention something about this?

Reviewer 3: No wait, that should be explained in https://ncsdoc.z6.web.core.windows.net/PR-20874/nrf/security/tfm/tfm.html#crypto-service. However, this section can have a link to " see configuring for more info" or something like that?

Author: Will be addressed in the next PR for TF-M Services.

     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` (:ref:`details<ug_tfm_services_its>`)
   * - Protected Storage (PS)
     - `PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_
     - Provides secure storage with encryption, integrity protection, and rollback protection for non-secure applications.
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PROTECTED_STORAGE` (:ref:`details<tfm_partition_ps>`)
   * - Initial Attestation
     - `PSA Certified Attestation API 1.0`_
     - Provides mechanisms to prove the device identity and software state to remote entities.
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INITIAL_ATTESTATION` (:ref:`details<ug_tfm_services_initial_attestation>`)
   * - Firmware Update
     - n/a
     - | The nRF Connect SDK does not implement the PSA Firmware Update API.
       | Instead, other options are available for the immutable bootloader and the upgradable bootloader.
       | See :ref:`app_bootloaders` for more information on available bootloaders.
     - n/a

.. _ug_tfm_supported_services_isolation:

Isolation Level support
***********************

> TF-M provides different :ref:`isolation levels <ug_tfm_architecture_isolation_lvls>` between security domains.

Reviewer 3: Do we have any docs anywhere which says when/how you get which isolation level?

Author: Next PR for the configuration page.
